# pythonpractice
After the first part of my training in spreadsheets, databases and data visualisation and storytelling in Power BI, I was trained on Python programming language. This page essentially contains all the materials I used in my training in the python programming language. It started off with an introduction of python and then moved on to python variables and data types. We then moved on to python data structures, and then logic and loops in python. We were then introduced to version control using Git and GitHub. We talked about python functions afterwards and then touched on recursive and lambda functions. Object-oriented programming was taught using classes, objects and methods. We were then exposed to PEP 8 guidelines and then introduced to the numerous packaged contained in python. We learnt pandas, numpy, etc. We moved on to advanced string manipulations and then to data visualisations in python. The next topic we covered was statistics with python and then we moved on to scripting and testing. At the end of each week, we were tested on what we had been taught in the form of code challenges, integrated projects and MCQ's, and at the end of the Python module, there was an exam to test all we had been taught. The repository contains snippets and Jupyter notebooks used for these tests and exams.
After being introduced to python fundamentals, the training moved towards introduction and application of machine learning models; from more simplistic to complex ones. Regression models were handled first; linear models, model performance, multiple linear regression, variable selection and model persistence, regularisation, decision trees, ensemble methods and bootstrapping, and random forests. We then moved on to Natural Language Processing and Classification which encompassed natural language processing itself, logistic regression, the related classification metrics, how to improve models, tree-based classfication methods, support vector machines, nearest neighbours and naive bayes, hyperparameter tuning and model validation, neural network classifiers and classifier model selection. We then moved on to unsupervised learning, specifically, principal component analysis, advanced dimensionality reduction, K-Means Clustering, Hierarchical Clustering, Gaussian Mixture Models, Clustering and Geospatial Analysis and Recommender Systems. This repository contains various notebooks I started and completed myself as assessments, exercises and/ or code challenges to be able to pass these modules.
The final module is on AWS Foundations, which is still in progress.
